---
title: "FLAIR: A Metric for Liquidity Provider Competitiveness in Automated Market Makers"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2023-06-05-FLAIR
date: 2023-06-05
venue: 'preliminary work'
excerpt: ''
paperurl: 'https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.09421'
---
This paper aims to enhance the understanding of liquidity provider (LP) returns in automated
market makers (AMMs). LPs face market risk as well as adverse selection due to risky asset
holdings in the pool that they provide liquidity to and the informational asymmetry between
informed traders (arbitrageurs) and AMMs. Loss-versus-rebalancing (LVR) quantifies the adverse
selection cost (Milionis et al. 2022a), and is a popular metric to evaluate the flow toxicity to
an AMM. However, individual LP returns are critically affected by another factor orthogonal
to the above: the competitiveness among LPs. This work introduces a novel metric for LP
competitiveness, called FLAIR (short for fee liquidity-adjusted instantaneous returns), that aims
to supplement LVR in assessments of LP performance to capture the dynamic behavior of LPs in
a pool. Our metric reflects the characteristics of fee return-on-capital, and differentiates active
liquidity provisioning strategies in AMMs. To illustrate how both flow toxicity, accounting for
the sophistication of the counterparty of LPs, as well as LP competitiveness, accounting for
the sophistication of the competition among LPs, affect individual LP returns, we propose a
quadrant interpretation where all of these characteristics may be readily visualized. We examine
LP competitiveness in an ex-post fashion, and show example cases in all of which our metric
confirms the expected nuances and intuition of competitiveness among LPs. We believe that our
metric to assess LP competitiveness has particular merit in empirical analyses, and will be able
to better inform practical assessments of AMM pools.

[Download paper here](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2306.09421)
